Hi, I'm Martha.
I'm an assistant professor at
the University of Alberta.
Hi, I'm Adam.
I'm a research professor at
the University of Alberta and
a senior researcher at deepmind.
Adam is well known for his work on
predictive knowledge for reinforcement
learning some other research groups around
the world are building on these ideas.
I personally think it is some of the most
important work in recent years and
will only become more influential.
He's also an impressive empiricist a real
master designing experiments to cut to
the key issues.
He's constantly trying to improve
scientific understanding in the RL
community.
Martha's algorithm
contributions to reinforce and
learning are too many to list here.
She has developed several new off policy
learning algorithms new approaches to
policy gradient and dozens of impressive
contributions to representation learning.
She is truly one of the young rising
stars and reinforce learning.
She also happens to be my most frequent
co-author and my partner in life.
So how did you get into computer science?
I grew up in the east coast and
high school.
I was really interested in the Sciences
physics chemistry biology, but
I couldn't really find the right fit.
So I kind of randomly took a course on
computer science and programming actually
in gw-basic and it was really
just a career-defining moment for
me because I just remember the first time,
you know, implementing an if statement or
for Loop and it was just amazing
to me that I could get a computer
to execute a sequence of instructions for
me.
And so from there like there was
no hope I was always going to do
computer science in college.
Okay, and then from there,
you know, why did you start
working on reinforcement learning?
So for Graduate Studies I moved out
to Alberta and I came out here to do
parallel distributed computing that that's
what I kind of focused on in my undergrad.
So I would had all my courses loaded
up with you know systems courses and
I have one more elective to fill so I was
looking around for course to take and
I did a very reasonable strategy.
I looked at the perfect pictures of
the professors and I picked a friendliest
looking Professor I could find and
yeah that turned out to be rich Sutton and
it was introduction to reinforce
learning and that course was amazing.
It was really inspiring.
It was my first introduction
to artificial intelligence or
machine learning of any kind.
And so I remember one of the early
assignments in that course,
we were implementing
sarsa to do a grid world.
And again, it was another
career defining moment for me.
Just watching this agent
learn to solve this Maze and
all they got was this reward
signal - one per step and
somehow it figured out this amazingly
efficient path out of the Maze.
And again, it just amazed me and I was
hooked and I was going Doing that for
the rest of my life.
So Martha, how did you end up doing
research in machine learning and
artificial intelligence?
Well, I actually started
my undergrad in math.
I've always thought functions and
dynamical systems are beautiful.
And then I just took a CS course for
fun and it really was very fun.
So I just continued in both math and
Cs and
those two topics go really well together
for AI and machine learning actually.
So and then I did some research
in AI in the summertime and
just continued from there and
I really just stayed in the field
because over time I realized it was
more than just about functions in math.
It's really a community where
you get to collaborate a lot and
you get to make a career where you help
people so my day I get to Mentor a lot and
I get to work at a big team working on
hard problems and it's really just very
amazing to get to work on such
interesting questions in a team.
There's probably some people who are
taking this RL course because they want to
do Graduate Studies in RL.
So what's one of the most important things
you learned in your Graduate Studies?
Well, maybe surprisingly enough.
I learned a lesson that's useful
across probably all the sciences.
And in fact just any form of research and
that's to really love coming to understand
the details of things to focus and
do small problems and
understand the really really well and that
that's something that I think is really
applicable across a wide range of things
and it's something that I pass on in my
students in my classes and I really focus
on teaching my graduate students that and
it's something that I hope to share to
the people taking the specialization.
So what do you like about your job?
Well, I love doing research.
But sometimes that can kind of
grind you down a little bit.
Like it's really long hours.
The peer review process can be
a little frustrating and so
in those times when you kind of step
back and look at your research,
it can seem kind of small and a little bit
insignificant and it's hard to see where
that's going how that's going to impact
the world and make it a better place.
And so in those times you can always
fall back and think about teaching and
mentorship right teaching is where you
get to help people learn about things for
the first time to come to understand how
your field works and it's just so exciting
and you're also being part of the,
you know, the beginning of their career is
whether they end up in Academia or
industry or starting their own companies.
It's just such an amazing experience
that be part of that process and
you know throat my week.
My the best day for me is always the days
when my schedules full of meetings with
my students and I get to help
them work on their problems and
kind understand reinforcement
learning better.
So why do you think it's so important
to work on reinforcement learning
wasn't the promise of RL is really big but
there are still
a lot of open challenges machine learning
has started being used much more widely.
But our else kind of only
been used in a few areas.
But at the same time I think Carl
can have a really big impact and
I think within the next decade or so,
we're going to see more control Engineers
actually using RL in their systems.
We're really just going to see that
it's a tool that can help in automated
decision making really within a larger
engineered systems, but I think for
that to really happen we need
to make some advances in RL.
We need to start thinking more about how
we're going to have robust algorithms and
how we're going to get people to be
comfortable using these algorithms.
So I think alongside adoption in Industry.
We're going to need to be thinking about
how we can improve our algorithms so
that these two things can happen together.
So, how about you?
Why do you think RL is good to work on?
Well, naturally, I think reinforce
learning is just the exact right framework
to study Ai and to make progress towards
solving AI but RL is also really important
to me because I'm very interested
in developmental Learning System.
So you can think about you know humans,
you know babies playing on the floor or
young animals learning about the world.
I want to learn about those systems and
how they work and if you think about those
systems, they learn an enormous amount
in such a tiny amount of time, right?
They learn how to crawl.
They learn how their bodies work.
They learn how to interact with their
environment manipulate objects communicate
with other agents in the world and there's
just generally they're very competent
learning systems and they do that over
like a couple weeks to a couple months and
it's just really astounding and
it feels like we have so
much work to do to get close
to those kind of systems.
And so I really want to come to
understand the algorithms and
the representations that
those systems might be using.
And I think reinforce alarming is
the right lens to look at those things and
to come to understand those things.
So applications always kind of Drive
interest and excitement in the field and
we've had a few of them in games and
some industrial control problems.
But what do you think is going to be the
next big thing in reinforcement learning?
Well as hard I think RL is just general
approached automated decision making
it's a tool that's going to help us
in a lot of our engineered systems.
And so I think the place we're
really going to see it take off as
an industrial control and
Industrial control.
We have experts that
are really looking for
ways to improve the optimal
the how well their systems work.
And so we're going to see you do
things like reduce energy costs or
save on other types of costs that we have
in these industrial control systems and
in the hands of experts we can really make
these algorithms work well in the near
future, so
I really see it as a tool that's
going to facilitate experts in their
work rather than say doing something like
replacing people are automating them away.